# BarGlyphBase Class

**Namespace:** WealthLab.ChartWPF  
**Parent:** PlotBase

The base class for the small icons (glyphs) that are plotted on the chart to represent events like dividends, splits, or candlestick chart patterns. They are the visual depiction of the EventDataPoint instances that are generated by Event Data Providers. The EventProviderBase class can override the GetBarGlyph method to assign custom BarGlyphs for its EventDataPoint instances.

## Chart Related

### Bars
```csharp
public BarHistory Bars
```
Returns the BarHistory instance which represents the historical data currently being charted.

### ChartPreferences
```csharp
public ChartPreferences ChartPreferences
```
Returns an instance of the ChartPreferences class, which contains properties that describe the colors and styles to use when rendering the chart.

### Color
```csharp
public WLColor Color
```
Specifies the color that should be used when plotting this plot object.

### DefaultBrush
```csharp
public Brush DefaultBrush
```
Returns the default Brush object that should be used when rendering this plot object.

### DefaultPen
```csharp
public Pen DefaultPen
```
Returns the default Pen object that should be used when rendering this plot object.

### GetBarColor
```csharp
public virtual Color GetBarColor(int idx)
```
Returns the color that should be used to render the bar number corresponding to the idx index.

### GetMaxValue
```csharp
public virtual double GetMaxValue(int start, int end)
```
Returns the highest y-axis value that the plot object requires within the specified start and end index range.

### GetMinValue
```csharp
public virtual double GetMinValue(int start, int end)
```
Returns the lowest y-axis value that the plot object requires within the specified start and end index range.

### IsMouseOver
```csharp
public virtual bool IsMouseOver(Point pt)
```
Returns whether the mouse position, contained in the pt parameter, is considered to be hovering over this plot object.

### Opacity
```csharp
public byte Opacity
```
Contains the opacity value (0-255) for rendering. When setting, expects value 0-100 (internally converted to 0-255 scale).

## Configuration

### ConfigKey
```csharp
public virtual string ConfigKey
```
The key used when WL8 saves this item's Configuration. Default is Name + "_Configuration".

### Configuration
```csharp
public string Configuration
```
Contains the configuration expressed as a single string, composed by persisting the Parameters.

### Description
```csharp
public virtual string Description
```
Returns a short description of the item, shown in parameter editor dialog.

### EditConfig
```csharp
public virtual string EditConfig()
```
Shows parameter editor dialog by default. Can be overridden for custom editor interface.

### IsConfigurable
```csharp
public virtual bool IsConfigurable
```
Returns true if Parameters contains one or more Parameter instances.

### Name
```csharp
public abstract string Name
```
Returns the name of the instance.

### Parameters
```csharp
public ParameterList Parameters
```
Contains the Parameter instances that comprise the configuration.

### ProcessConfig
```csharp
public virtual void ProcessConfig()
```
Override to perform special processing after Configuration changes.

## Coordinate Conversion

### ConvertDateTimeToX
```csharp
public double ConvertDateTimeToX(DateTime dt)
```
Converts DateTime value to x-axis pixel location.

### ConvertIndexToX
```csharp
public double ConvertIndexToX(int idx)
```
Converts BarHistory index to x-axis pixel location.

### ConvertValueToY
```csharp
public double ConvertValueToY(double value)
```
Converts value to y-axis pixel location.

### ConvertXToDateTime
```csharp
public DateTime ConvertXToDateTime(double x)
```
Converts x-axis pixel location to DateTime value.

### ConvertXToIndex
```csharp
public virtual int ConvertXToIndex(double x)
```
Converts x-axis pixel value to BarHistory index.

### ConvertYToValue
```csharp
public double ConvertYToValue(double y)
```
Converts y-axis pixel location to value.

## Members

### AboveBar
```csharp
public virtual bool AboveBar
```
Determines if BarGlyph renders above/below bar (default: false).

### DrawTooltip
```csharp
public void DrawTooltip(DrawingContext dc, string txt, Color color, double y)
```
Renders tooltip for BarGlyph on mouse hover.

### DrawTooltips
```csharp
public void DrawTooltips(DrawingContext dc, List<ChartTooltip> tooltips, double y)
```
Renders multi-line tooltip for BarGlyph on mouse hover.

### GlyphHeight
```csharp
public double GlyphHeight
```
Height of the BarGlyph in pixels.

### GlyphWidth
```csharp
public double GlyphWidth
```
Width of the BarGlyph in pixels.

## Rendering

### HasMouseOverState
```csharp
public virtual bool HasMouseOverState
```
Returns whether plot object renders special state on mouse over.

### PostRender
```csharp
public virtual void PostRender(DrawingContext dc)
```
Called after main rendering phase.

### PreRender
```csharp
public virtual void PreRender(DrawingContext dc)
```
Called before main rendering phase.

### Render
```csharp
public abstract void Render(DrawingContext dc)
```
Called when plot object should be rendered.

### RenderHighlight
```csharp
public virtual void RenderHighlight(DrawingContext dc)
```
Called when mouse-over effect should be rendered.

### RenderPass
```csharp
public virtual int RenderPass
```
Returns rendering pass (1 or 2) for this plot object. 